README.md, before:

# Fan Shim for Raspberry Pi

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/pimoroni/fanshim-python.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/pimoroni/fanshim-python)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/pimoroni/fanshim-python/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/pimoroni/fanshim-python?branch=master)
[![PyPi Package](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/fanshim.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/fanshim)
[![Python Versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/fanshim.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/fanshim)

# Installing

Stable library from PyPi:

* Just run `sudo pip install fanshim`

Latest/development library from GitHub:

* `git clone https://github.com/pimoroni/fanshim-python`
* `cd fanshim-python`
* `sudo ./install.sh`

# Reference

You should first set up an instance of the `FANShim` class, eg:

```python
from fanshim import FanShim
fanshim = FanShim()
```

## Fan

Turn the fan on with:

```python
fanshim.set_fan(True)
```

Turn it off with:

```python
fanshim.set_fan(False)
```

You can also toggle the fan with:

```python
fanshim.toggle_fan()
```

You can check the status of the fan with:

```python
fanshim.get_fan() # returns 1 for 'on', 0 for 'off'
```

## LED

Fan Shim includes one RGB APA-102 LED.

Set it to any colour with:

```python
fanshim.set_light(r, g, b)
```

Arguments r, g and b should be numbers between 0 and 255 that describe the colour you want.

For example, full red:

```
fanshim.set_light(255, 0, 0)
```

## Button

Fan Shim includes a button, you can bind actions to press, release and hold events.

Do something when the button is pressed:

```python
@fanshim.on_press()
def button_pressed():
    print("The button has been pressed!")
```

Or when it has been released:

```python
@fanshim.on_release()
def button_released(was_held):
    print("The button has been pressed!")
```

Or when it's been pressed long enough to trigger a hold:

```python
fanshim.set_hold_time(2.0)

@fanshim.on_hold()
def button_held():
    print("The button was held for 2 seconds")
```

The function you bind to `on_release()` is passed a `was_held` parameter,
this lets you know if the button was held down for longer than the configured
hold time. If you want to bind an action to "press" and another to "hold" you
should check this flag and perform your action in the `on_release()` handler:

```python
@fanshim.on_release()
def button_released(was_held):
    if was_held:
        print("Long press!")
    else:
        print("Short press!")
```

To configure the amount of time the button should be held (in seconds), use:

```python
fanshim.set_hold_time(number_of_seconds)
```

If you need to stop Fan Shim from polling the button, use:

```python
fanshim.stop_polling()
```

You can start it again with:

```python
fanshim.start_polling()
```

# Alternate Software

* Fan SHIM in C, using WiringPi - https://github.com/flobernd/raspi-fanshim
* Fan SHIM in C++, using libgpiod - https://github.com/daviehh/fanshim-cpp

Commit message:

Added not about the changes made to enable fan to run slower using PWM.

README.md, after:

This is a modified version set to run the Fan slower and quieter using Pulse Width Modulation.

All the changes made are in /library/fanshim/__init__.py.

I have added some tmux files to enable running /examples/automatic.py  automatically at start up.

There is a txt file showing the changes needed to /etc/rc.local




# Fan Shim for Raspberry Pi

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/pimoroni/fanshim-python.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/pimoroni/fanshim-python)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/pimoroni/fanshim-python/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/pimoroni/fanshim-python?branch=master)
[![PyPi Package](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/fanshim.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/fanshim)
[![Python Versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/fanshim.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/fanshim)

# Installing

Stable library from PyPi:

* Just run `sudo pip install fanshim`

Latest/development library from GitHub:

* `git clone https://github.com/pimoroni/fanshim-python`
* `cd fanshim-python`
* `sudo ./install.sh`

# Reference

You should first set up an instance of the `FANShim` class, eg:

```python
from fanshim import FanShim
fanshim = FanShim()
```

## Fan

Turn the fan on with:

```python
fanshim.set_fan(True)
```

Turn it off with:

```python
fanshim.set_fan(False)
```

You can also toggle the fan with:

```python
fanshim.toggle_fan()
```

You can check the status of the fan with:

```python
fanshim.get_fan() # returns 1 for 'on', 0 for 'off'
```

## LED

Fan Shim includes one RGB APA-102 LED.

Set it to any colour with:

```python
fanshim.set_light(r, g, b)
```

Arguments r, g and b should be numbers between 0 and 255 that describe the colour you want.

For example, full red:

```
fanshim.set_light(255, 0, 0)
```

## Button

Fan Shim includes a button, you can bind actions to press, release and hold events.

Do something when the button is pressed:

```python
@fanshim.on_press()
def button_pressed():
    print("The button has been pressed!")
```

Or when it has been released:

```python
@fanshim.on_release()
def button_released(was_held):
    print("The button has been pressed!")
```

Or when it's been pressed long enough to trigger a hold:

```python
fanshim.set_hold_time(2.0)

@fanshim.on_hold()
def button_held():
    print("The button was held for 2 seconds")
```

The function you bind to `on_release()` is passed a `was_held` parameter,
this lets you know if the button was held down for longer than the configured
hold time. If you want to bind an action to "press" and another to "hold" you
should check this flag and perform your action in the `on_release()` handler:

```python
@fanshim.on_release()
def button_released(was_held):
    if was_held:
        print("Long press!")
    else:
        print("Short press!")
```

To configure the amount of time the button should be held (in seconds), use:

```python
fanshim.set_hold_time(number_of_seconds)
```

If you need to stop Fan Shim from polling the button, use:

```python
fanshim.stop_polling()
```

You can start it again with:

```python
fanshim.start_polling()
```

# Alternate Software

* Fan SHIM in C, using WiringPi - https://github.com/flobernd/raspi-fanshim
* Fan SHIM in C++, using libgpiod - https://github.com/daviehh/fanshim-cpp
